Thoughts on column update + subassignment (#654)
tidyverse/tibble: vignettes/invariants.Rmd

with_df(df[[NA_character_]] <- 0)
```

> `a` is recycled to the same size as `df` so must have size `nrow(x)` or 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`a` is recycled to the same size as `df` so must have size `nrow(df)` or 1.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`a` is recycled to the same size as `x` so must have size `nrow(x)` or 1.
```

`x$name <- a` and `x$"name" <- a` are equivalent to `x[["name"]] <- a`.[^column-assign-symmetry]

[^column-assign-symmetry]: `$` behaves almost completely symmetrically to `[[` when comparing subsetting and subassignment.

```{r dollar-equivalent-to-subset-assign, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df$n <- 0)
with_df(df[["n"]] <- 0)
```

`$<-` does not perform partial matching.

```{r dollar-equivalent-to-subset-assign-pmatch, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df$l <- 0)
with_df(df[["l"]] <- 0)
```

## Column subassignment: `x[j] <- a`

* If `j` is missing, it's replaced with `seq_along(x)`
* If `j` is logical, it's converted to numeric with `seq_along(x)[j]`.

### `a` is a list or data frame

If `inherits(a, "list")` or `inherits(a, "data.frame")` is `TRUE`, then `x[j] <- a` is equivalent to `x[[j[[1]]] <- a[[1]]`, `x[[j[[2]]]] <- a[[2]]`, ...

```{r bracket-assign-def, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df[1:2] <- list("x", 4:1))
with_df(df[c("li", "x", "c")] <- list("x", 4:1, NULL))
```

If `length(a)` equals 1, then it is recycled to the same length as `j`.

```{r bracket-assign-recycles, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df[1:2] <- list(1))
with_df(df[1:2] <- list(0, 0, 0))
with_df(df[1:3] <- list(0, 0))
```

> If the same column is updated/removed several times, the last update wins.

Reviewer: I wasn't aware of this:

```suggestion
An attempt to update the same column twice gives an error.
```

``` r
df <- data.frame(a = 1:3)
df[c(1, 1)] <- 2
#> Error in `[<-.data.frame`(`*tmp*`, c(1, 1), value = 2): duplicate subscripts for columns
```

<sup>Created on 2019-10-01 by the [reprex package](https://reprex.tidyverse.org) (v0.3.0)</sup>

`x$name <- a` and `x$"name" <- a` are equivalent to `x[["name"]] <- a`.[^column-assign-symmetry]

[^column-assign-symmetry]: `$` behaves almost completely symmetrically to `[[` when comparing subsetting and subassignment.

```{r dollar-equivalent-to-subset-assign, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df$n <- 0)
with_df(df[["n"]] <- 0)
```

`$<-` does not perform partial matching.

```{r dollar-equivalent-to-subset-assign-pmatch, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df$l <- 0)
with_df(df[["l"]] <- 0)
```

## Column subassignment: `x[j] <- a`

* If `j` is missing, it's replaced with `seq_along(x)`
* If `j` is logical, it's converted to numeric with `seq_along(x)[j]`.

> ### `a` is a list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `a` is a list or a data frame
```

`x[j] <- a` is equivalent to `x[[j[[1]]] <- a[[1]]`, `x[[j[[2]]]] <- a[[2]]`, ....
`a` is recycled to the same length as `j`.

```{r, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df[1:2] <- list(1))
with_df(df[1:2] <- list(1, 2))
```

Only lists of length one on the RHS are recycled.

```{r bracket-assign-recycles-one, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df[1:2] <- list(0, 0, 0))
with_df(df[1:3] <- list(0, 0))
```

When the same column is updated/removed several times, the last update wins.

> If `a` contains `NULL` values, the corresponding columns are removed *after* updating. <!-- HW: why is _after_ signficant? -->

Reviewer: The last example in line 519 shows the importance: The column `c` (index 2) is updated; if removal happened first, the `li` column would have been updated.

Should we split the "bracket-assign-def" example?

Author: Oh got it.

with_df(df[5] <- list(4:1))
```

> ### `a` is a non-list vector 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `a` is a non-list vector and not a dataframe
```

with_df(df[5] <- list(4:1))
```

### `a` is another type of vector 

> `x[j] <- a` is equivalent to `x[j] <- list(a)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `vec_is(a)`, then `x[j] <- a` is equivalent to `x[j] <- list(a)`.
```

This is primarily provided for backward compatbility.

```{r bracket-assign-wraps, dftbl = TRUE}
with_df(df[1] <- 0)
with_df(df[1] <- list(0))
```

### `a` is not a vector

Any other type for `a` is an error.

> Note that `is.list(a)` is `TRUE`, but `inherits(a, "list")` is `FALSE`, then `a` is considered to be a scalar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, if `is.list(a)` is `TRUE` but `inherits(a, "list")` is `FALSE`, then `a` is considered to be a scalar.
See `?vec_is` and `?vec_proxy` for details.
```
